# external-secret-explain

## Overview

`external-secret-explain` is a Rust-based tool designed to simplify the complexity of determining the source of secret keys generated by [External Secrets Operator](https://external-secrets.io/latest/). It is particularly useful for reverse engineering Kubernetes secrets, allowing users to trace their origins. The tool supports external secret management systems, such as AWS Secrets Manager and Oracle (OCI) Vault.

## Features

- **Secret Source Discovery**: Identifies and annotates secret keys for a given Kubernetes secret, making it clear where each key originates from.
- **Useful for Merged Secrets**: Helps in debugging and understanding secrets that are merged from multiple sources.
- **Multiple Output Formats**: Supports YAML and JSON output for better integration with various tools.

## Installation

To install `external-secret-explain`, follow these steps:

1. **Clone the Repository**:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/wasilak/external-secret-explain.git
   cd external-secret-explain
   ```

2. **Build the Project**:

   Ensure you have [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/) installed. Then, run:

   ```bash
   cargo build --release
   ```

3. **Run the Application**:

   ```bash
   ./target/release/external-secret-explain
   ```

## Usage

```shell
Usage: external-secret-explain [OPTIONS] <SECRET_NAME>

Arguments:
  <SECRET_NAME>  Name of Kubernetes secret

Options:
  -o, --output <OUTPUT>  Output format [default: yaml] [possible values: yaml, json]
  -h, --help             Print help
  -V, --version          Print version
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please open an issue or submit a pull request on GitHub.

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

Special thanks to the contributors of the [External Secrets Operator](https://github.com/external-secrets/external-secrets) project for their foundational work.

